**William L. Hillhouse III**  
3517 Canehill Ave.  
Long Beach, CA 90808  
562-257-8548  
<whillhou@uci.edu>

**SUMMARY**

I am driven to help people and committed to developing software engineering
skills to achieve this goal. I am able to work independently, but my strength is
collaboration. I have experience packaging third party software and running
automated testing in a continuous integration environment. In addition, I have
experience writing scripts to support remote automated installs via SOAP web
service calls. VMware is my friend. Java programming is my most recent area of
study and practice. I desire a position where I can deepen my DevOps skills and
further my understanding in the Java programming language.

**SKILLS**

-   4+ years of professional experience as a software engineer

-   Java, C/C++, Perl, Powershell, HTML, CSS

-   Development & Debugger Tools: Visual Studio, Eclipse, Xcode, BlueJ,
    IntelliJ, PerlD

-   Source Control: Perforce, Git

-   2+ years of test automation & CICD

-   Build Automation Tools: Jenkins, Puppet Enterprise

-   Knowledge of Http protocols & tools

-   Exposure to server-side development with focus on scalability, reliability,
    and redundancy

-   Some experience with SOAP/REST web service calls

-   Agile Scrum Methodologies

-   Software Design Patterns

-   Good written and oral communication

**EXPERIENCE**

**Technology Expert 2018 - Present**

MSI Atlas

Providing support and consultation for Mover Services, Inc. and working closely
with a 3rd party developer who is providing an all-in-one software solution
aimed at eliminating paper trail.

**Accomplishments**

-   Desktop operating system maintenance, troubleshooting, and diagnosis

-   Desktop connectivity troubleshooting

-   Application installation and support

-   Printer installation and support

-   Microsoft Office Suite support

-   AD user account management

-   Office 365/Exchange user account management

**Java Boot Camp Instructor 2017 - 2018**

Hosted a Java programming boot camp using Coursera’s Java classes as curriculum.
I taught through the 5 course specialization called, “Programming and Software
Engineering Fundamentals” provided by Duke University. Completing this
specialization served as a good refresher for myself and hosting this boot camp
provided me with better mentoring and teaching skills.

**Accomplishments**

-   Course 1: Programming Foundations with JavaScript, HTML and CSS

-   Course 2: Java Programming: Solving Problems with Software

-   Course 3: Java Programming: Arrays, Lists, and Structured Data

-   Course 4: Java Programming: Principles of Software Design

-   Course 5: Java Programming: Build a Recommendation System

**Software Engineer 2013 - 2017**

Dell Technologies

Engineer on the virtualization team responsible for creating the Proxy plug-in
which allowed AVAMAR backup and restore software to run in a virtualized
environment. I provided support to twelve engineers mostly consisting of senior
and principal engineers. Team responsibilities included, bug fixes as well as
adding new features and enhancements to the Proxy plug-in. Performed DevOps
duties which aided in the management and maintenance of lab equipment.
Maintained continuous integration/build environments with version control.
Expanded and improved the team's internal smoke testing environment across
several product releases.

**Accomplishments**

-   Pioneered automating the software build process using Puppet Enterprise
    Solution.

-   Automated deployment of the AVAMAR suite in a VMware environment using
    PowerShell and Jenkins.

-   Developed and integrated new test cases for various AVAMAR backup and
    restore specific plugins.

-   Configured EMC VNX & VNXe storage arrays and Cisco servers with VMware ESXi
    and KVM access.

-   Exposure to Cisco switch configuration and zone mappings.

-   Created several debug wrapper functions in C and C++

**Software Intern 2012 - 2013**

Dell Technologies

Maintained and improved the group's internal TWiki website. Wrote scripts in
Perl for the TWiki website. Managed an Oracle database for the TWiki website.
Assisted with installation and maintenance of team’s physical infrastructure in
the lab.

**EDUCATION**

**B.S. in Computer Engineering June 2013**

University of California, Irvine 2010 - 2013

-   Undergraduate Coursework: Data Structures, Algorithms, Computer
    Architecture, Databases, Circuits, Semiconductors, Analog & Digital Signals
    & Systems, Engineering and Writing

-   Clubs and Offices held: Lab manager & Secretary for UCI IEEE 2011 - 2013

Long Beach City College 2005 - 2010

-   G.E. Coursework: Calculus, Differential Equations, Linear Algebra, E&M
    Physics, Modern Physics, Thermodynamics, Optics, Intro to C++ Programming,
    Intro to Speech

-   Clubs and Offices held: Webmaster & V.P. of Fundraising for AGS KAPPA 2007 -
    2010

-   2nd place [MATE 2008 Underwater ROV](https://youtu.be/fNchPvwWjq0)
    competition.
